java is platform independent but the jvm is platform dependent, the java source code is compiled into a 
.class file and in that .class file is the bytecode and then the byte code is then transformed into machine
code by the JVM using the Interpreter and JIT just in time compiler. 

in C++ and other languages is it different c++ is platform dependant and so the source code in c++ is turned
into an executable file and in that file contains the machine code. 

a linked list is better than using an array when we don't know the final size ahead of time, in a linked list
you can continuously you do not need a fixed size ahead you can grow your datatructure as you need. 
adding to the head of a linked list is O(1) but for an array its O(n) because you need to deacllocate the 
array and create a new array witht the new udpdated size.
when you need fast insertions and deletions in the middle. 
when youre doing a lot of insertions and deletions at the head.

What is a pointer?
- it is a variable that is holding the memory address of another variable intead of having a value itself.
and that lets you indirectly access that memory directly and change the value in that mem or read that value.

A NULL pointer is a pointer that does not point to any valid memory address in memory.

pointers allow you to indirectly access memory addresses and manipulate the data in that address.

A stack is different than a queue in their principles a stack has the principle LIFO last in first out
 and a queue has the principle FIFO first in first out. they differ in the order that their contents can be accessed.
a stack is used for DFS and a queue is used for BFS. 
stack operations are push pop peek
and queue operations are enqueue dequeue and front.


selection sort is O(N^2) and mergeSort is O(N log N) meaning mergeSort is faster than selection sort.

a compiled language is compiled into an exe which gives us machine code and that is ran on the hardware.
compiled languages are platform dependant whereas an interpreted language like java is platfom independant
it is first transformed into a .class file which is the byte code and the jvm which is platform dependant 
translates the bytecode into machine code and that is in turn ran on the hardware.

I was wrong in interpreted languages the interpreter executess the code line by line at runtime. the same 
source code can run on any machine that has that interpreter making these interpreted languages platform in
depent.

a garbage collector in java is when the reference to an object is gone its job is to go and automatically free 
up the memory that that object occupied which helps in preventing memory leaks. 


a strongly typed language enforeces data types and rules on how data types can be used for example you can do 
operations on 2 different data types without first doing a type conversion. while in weakly typed languages is 
more flexible in that regard. 

recursio
